[APIM 4.4.0] Fixes primary user store related issues (#8601)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/administer/managing-users-and-roles/managing-user-stores/configure-primary-user-store/configuring-a-read-write-ldap-user-store.md

# Configuring a Read-Write LDAP User Store

It is assumed that you have already setup your read-write LDAP user store. Follow the given steps to configure it as the primary user store in WSO2 API Manager:

-   [Step 1: Configure the read-write LDAP user store manager](#step-1-configure-the-read-write-ldap-user-store-manager)
-   [Step 2: Updating the system administrator](#step-2-updating-the-system-administrator)
-   [Step 3: Starting the server](#step-3-starting-the-server)

### Step 1: Configure the read-write LDAP user store manager

The following are the minimum configurations that are needed to be provided to configure the read-write LDAP userstore manager.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Configuration Name</th>
<th>Display Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>type</td>
<td>userstore Type</td>

> <td>This is the type of the userstore manager that we are using. For read-write LDAP userstore manager. this value
> should be read_write_ldap_unique_id.

Reviewer: Shall we revisit this description?

```suggestion
<td>This is the type of the userstore manager being used. For read-write LDAP userstore manager, this value
should be `read_write_ldap_unique_id`.
```

Author: addressed

</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>base_dn</td>
<td>User Search Base</td>
<td>This denotes the DN of the context or object under which the user entries are stored in the userstore. When the userstore searches for users, it will start from this location of the directory.<br />
Sample values: ou=Users,dc=wso2,dc=org</td>
</tr>
</thead>
</table>

Following are the minimum userstore properties that are needed to be provided to configure Read-Write LDAP userstore manager :

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Property Id</th>

> <th>Primary userstore Property</th>
> <th>Secondary userstore Property</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<th>Primary Userstore Property</th>
<th>Secondary Userstore Property</th>
```

Author: addresssed

<br />
If LDAP connection pooling is used, see enable connection pooling for LDAPS connections.<br />
<a href="{{base_path}}/deploy/performance/performance-tuning-recommendations#performance-tuning-ldaps-pooling">performance tuning ldaps pooling)</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>ConnectionName</td>
<td>connection_name</td>
<td>Connection Name</td>
<td><p>The username used to connect to the userstore and perform various operations. This user does not need to be an administrator in the userstore or have an administrator role in the WSO2 product that you are using, but this user MUST have permissions to read the user list and users' attributes and to perform search operations on the userstore. The value you specify is used as the DN (Distinguish Name) attribute of the user who has sufficient permissions to perform operations on users and roles in LDAP</p>
<p>This property is mandatory.<br />
Sample values: uid=admin,ou=system</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>ConnectionPassword</td>
<td>connection_password</td>
<td>Connection Password</td>
<td>Password for the ConnectionName user.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> Replace the default `user_store` configuration in the `         <APIM_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml        
> ` file, as per your ldap server configuration. A sample configuration is given below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the default `user_store` configuration in the `<APIM_HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml` file as per your LDAP server configuration. A sample configuration is given below.
```

Author: addressed

``` toml
[user_store]
type = "read_write_ldap_unique_id"
base_dn = "ou=system"
connection_url = "ldap://localhost:10389"
connection_name = "uid=admin,ou=system"
connection_password = "admin"
```
Apart from above properties, WSO2 API Manager also supports advanced LDAP configurations.

---

### Properties used in Read-write LDAP userstore manager

Any of  the following properties can be configured for the `PRIMARY` userstore by adding them as follows to
`<APIM-HOME>/repository/conf/deployment.toml`.

``` toml
[user_store]
<Property-Name> = <Property-Value>
```
For example :

``` toml
[user_store]
read_groups = true
```

!!! note
    In the table given below, the `Primary userstore Property` column has the `PRIMARY` userstore properties that can be configured in the `deployment.toml` file. The `Secondary userstore Property` column has the properties that can be configured for a secondary userstore through the Management Console.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Property Id</th>

> <th>Primary userstore Property</th>
> <th>Secondary userstore Property</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<th>Primary Userstore Property</th>
<th>Secondary Userstore Property</th>
```

Author: addressed

### Step 2: Updating the system administrator

The **admin** user is the super tenant that will be able to manage all
other users, roles, and permissions in the system by using the management
console of the product. Therefore, the user that should have admin
permissions is required to be stored in the userstore when you start
the system for the first time. Since the LDAP userstore can be written
to, you have the option of creating a new admin user in the userstore
when you start the system for the first time. Alternatively, you can
also use a user ID that already exists in the LDAP. For information
about the system administrator user, see [Configuring the System

> Administrator]({{base_path}}/reference/config-catalog/#super-admin-configurations) .

Reviewer: Any reason to not have this in a single paragraph?

Author: fixed the formatting

These two alternative configurations can be done as explained below.

> -   If you are using a user that is already in the LDAP. Find a valid user that already resides in the userstore. For
>     example, say a valid username is
>     AdminSOA.Add the following configuration to the `deployment.toml` file as shown below. You do not have to update the password element as it is already set in the userstore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   If you are using a user that is already in the LDAP, find a valid user that already resides in the user store. For example, say a valid username is AdminSOA. Add the following configuration to the `deployment.toml` file as shown below. You do not have to update the password element as it is already set in the userstore.
```

Author: addressed
